# simple test with ReactDOM

## Background

> "The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more
> confidence they can give you." -
> [@kentcdodds](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106)

This is a critical principle that you'll be learning about through this whole
workshop. Everything we do with testing our React components is walking the line
of trade-offs of getting our tests to resemble the way our software is actually
used and having something that's reasonably possible for testing.

When we think about how things are used, we need to consider who the users are:

1. The end user that's interacting with our code (clicking buttons/etc)
2. The developer user that's actually using our code (rendering it, calling our
   functions, etc.)

Often a _third_ user creeps into our tests and we want to avoid them as much as
possible: [The Test User](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/avoid-the-test-user).

When it comes to React components, our developer user will render our component
with `ReactDOM` (similar concept for React Native) and in some cases they'll
pass props and/or wrap it in a context provider. The end user will click buttons
and assert on the output.

So that's what our test will do.

📜 You'll be using assertions from jest: https://jestjs.io/docs/en/expect

## Exercise

We have a simple counter component (if you have the app running locally, you can
interact with it at: http://localhost:3000/counter). Your job is to make sure
that it starts out saying "Current count: 0" and that when the user clicks
"Increment" it'll increase the count and when they click "Decrement" it'll
decrease the count.

To do this, you'll need to create a DOM node, add it to the body, and render the
component to that DOM node. You'll also need to clean up the DOM when your test
is finished so the next test has a clean DOM to interact with.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 use dispatchEvent

Using `.click` on a DOM node works fine, but what if you wanted to fire an event
that doesn't have a dedicated method (like mouseover). Rather than use
`button.click()`, try using `button.dispatchEvent`: 📜
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/dispatchEvent

> NOTE: Make sure that your event config sets `bubbles: true`

💰 Here's how you create a MouseEvent in the test:

```javascript
new MouseEvent('click', {
  bubbles: true,
  cancelable: true,
  button: 0,
})
```

🦉 NOTE: You'll want to have one event per interaction. Technically it "works"
by reusing the same mouse event for both the increment and decrement, but when
the user clicks those buttons they're shooting of two distinct events so your
test should do the same (in the spirit of making your test resemble how your
component is used).

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then
fill out the elaboration and feedback form:

https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Testing%20React%20Applications%20%F0%9F%A7%90&e=01%3A%20simple%20test%20with%20ReactDOM&em=
