# mocking Browser APIs and modules

## Background

Mocking HTTP requests is one thing, but sometimes you have entire Browser APIs
or modules that you need to mock. Every time you create a fake version of what
your code actually uses, you're "poking a hole in reality" and you lose some
confidence as a result (which is why E2E tests are critical). Remember, we're
doing it and recognizing that we're trading confidence for some practicality or
convenience in our testing. (Read more about this in my blog post:
[The Merits of Mocking](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/the-merits-of-mocking)).

To learn more about what "mocking" even is, take a look at my blog post
[But really, what is a JavaScript mock?](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/but-really-what-is-a-javascript-mock)

### Mocking Browser APIs

I need to tell you a little secret and I want you to promise me to not be mad...

Our tests aren't running in the browser 😱😱😱😱😱

It's true. They're running in a _simulated_ browser environment in Node. This is
done thanks to a module called [jsdom](https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom). It does
it's best to simulate the browser and implement standards. But there are some
things it's simply not capable of simulating today. One example is window resize
and media queries. In my
[Advanced React Hooks workshop](https://kentcdodds.com/workshops/advanced-react-hooks),
I teach something using a custom `useMedia` hook and to test it, I have to mock
out the browser `window.resizeTo` method and polyfill `window.matchMedia`.
Here's how I go about doing that:

```javascript
import matchMediaPolyfill from 'mq-polyfill'

beforeAll(() => {
  matchMediaPolyfill(window)
  window.resizeTo = function resizeTo(width, height) {
    Object.assign(this, {
      innerWidth: width,
      innerHeight: height,
      outerWidth: width,
      outerHeight: height,
    }).dispatchEvent(new this.Event('resize'))
  }
})
```

This allows me to continue to test with Jest (in node) while not actually
running in a browser.

So why do we go through all the trouble? Because the tools we currently have for
testing are WAY faster and WAY more capable when run in node. Most of the time,
you can mock browser APIs for your tests without losing too much confidence.
However, if you are testing something that really relies on browser APIs or
layout (like drag-and-drop) then you may be better served by writing those tests
in a real browser (using a tool like [Cypress](https://cypress.io)).

### Mocking Modules

Sometimes, a module is doing something you don't want to actually do in tests.
Jest makes it relatively simple to mock a module:

```javascript
// math.js
export const add = (a, b) => a + b
export const subtract = (a, b) => a - b

// __tests__/some-test.js
import {add, subtract} from '../math'

jest.mock('../math')

// now all the function exports from the "math.js" module are jest mock functions
// so we can call .mockImplementation(...) on them
// and make assertions like .toHaveBeenCalledTimes(...)
```

Additionally, if you'd like to mock only _parts_ of a module, you can provide
your own "mock module getter" function:

```javascript
jest.mock('../math', () => {
  const actualMath = jest.requireActual('../math')
  return {
    ...actualMath,
    subtract: jest.fn(),
  }
})

// now the `add` export is the normal function,
// but the `subtract` export is a mock function.
```

To learn a bit about how this works, take a look at my repo
[how-jest-mocking-works](https://github.com/kentcdodds/how-jest-mocking-works).
It's pretty fascinating.

There's a lot more to learn about the things you can do with Jest's module
mocking capabilities. You can also read the docs about this here:

📜 [Manual Mocks](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/manual-mocks)

## Exercise

We've got a `Location` component that will request the user's location and then
display the latitude and longitude values on screen. An yup, you guessed it,
`window.navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition` is not supported by jsdom, so
we need to mock it out. We'll mock it with a jest mock function so we can call
[`mockImplementation`](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/mock-function-api#mockfnmockimplementationfn)
and mock what that function does for a particular test.

We'll also bump into one of the few situations you need to use
[`act`](https://reactjs.org/docs/test-utils.html#act) directly.
[Learn more](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/fix-the-not-wrapped-in-act-warning).

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 mock the module

Sometimes, the module is interacting with browser APIs that are just too hard to
mock (like `canvas`) or you're comfortable relying on the module's own test
suite to give you confidence that so long as you use the module properly
everything should work.

In that case, it's reasonable to mock the module directly. So for this extra
credit, try to mock the module rather than the browser API it's using.

💰 tip, you're mocking a hook. Your mock implementation can also be a hook (so
you can use `React.useState`!).

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then
fill out the elaboration and feedback form:

https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Testing%20React%20Applications%20%F0%9F%A7%90&e=06%3A%20mocking%20Browser%20APIs%20and%20modules&em=
