# testing with context and a custom render method

## Background

A common question when testing React components is what to do with React
components that use context values. If you take a step back and consider the
guiding testing philosophy of writing tests that resemble the way our software
is used, then you'll know that you want to render your component with the
provider:

```javascript
render(
  <ContextProvider>
    <ComponentToTest />
  </ContextProvider>,
)
```

The one problem with this is if you want to re-render the `<ComponentToTest />`
(for example, to give it new props and test how it responds to updated props),
then you have to include the context providers:

```javascript
const {rerender} = render(
  <ContextProvider>
    <ComponentToTest />
  </ContextProvider>,
)

rerender(
  <ContextProvider>
    <ComponentToTest newProp={true} />
  </ContextProvider>,
)
```

This is kind of annoying, so instead, you can provide a `wrapper` option and
that will ensure that rerenders are wrapped as well:

```javascript
function Wrapper({children}) {
  return <ContextProvider>{children}</ContextProvider>
}

const {rerender} = render(<ComponentToTest />, {wrapper: Wrapper})

rerender(<ComponentToTest newProp={true} />)
```

📜 https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/api#wrapper

This `Wrapper` could include providers for all your context providers in your
app: Router, Theme, Authentication, etc.

To take it further, you could create your own custom render method that does
this automatically:

```javascript
import {render as rtlRender} from '@testing-library/react'
// "rtl" is short for "react testing library" not "right-to-left" 😅

function render(ui, options) {
  return rtlRender(ui, {wrapper: Wrapper, ...options})
}

// then in your tests, you don't need to worry about context at all:
const {rerender} = render(<ComponentToTest />)

rerender(<ComponentToTest newProp={true} />)
```

From there, you can put that custom render function in your own module and use
your custom render method instead of the built-in one from React Testing
Library. Learn more about this from the docs:

📜 https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/setup

## Exercise

In this exercise, we have an "Easy Button" that's styled differently based on
the Theme context. Your job is to assert on the styles it has, but you first
need to render the UI with the ThemeProvider (and set the `initialTheme` value).

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 add a test for the dark theme

Should mostly be a copy/paste and change the `initialTheme` and assertion a bit.

### 2. 💯 create a custom render method

The duplication is cramping my style. Create a custom render method that
encapsulates this shared logic. It'll need to accept an option for the `theme`
(dark or light).

### 3. 💯 swap @testing-library/react with app test utils

We've actually already created a custom render method for this! So swap your
`import` of `@testing-library/react` with `test/test-utils` which you can find
in `./src/test/test-utils.js`.

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then
fill out the elaboration and feedback form:

https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Testing%20React%20Applications%20%F0%9F%A7%90&e=07%3A%20testing%20with%20context%20and%20a%20custom%20render%20method&em=
