# testing custom hooks

## Background

Testing custom hooks is a common question as well. Step back and think about how
our guiding testing principle applies to this situation: the more your tests
resemble the way your software is used, the more confidence they can give you.
How is your custom hook used? It's used in a component! So that's how it should
be tested.

Often, the easiest and most straightforward way to test a custom hook is to
create a component that uses it and then test that component instead.

## Exercise

In this exercise, we have gone back to our simple counter, except now that logic
is all in a custom hook and we need to test that functionality. To do that,
we'll make a test component that uses the hook in the typical way that our hook
will be used and then test that component, indirectly testing our hook.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 fake component

Sometimes it's hard to write a test component without making a pretty
complicated "TestComponent." For those situations, you can try something like
this:

```javascript
let result
function TestComponent(props) {
  result = useCustomHook(props)
  return null
}

// interact with and assert on results here
```

Learn more about this approach from my blog post:
[How to test custom React hooks](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/how-to-test-custom-react-hooks)

### 2. 💯 setup function

Add tests titled:

1. allows customization of the initial count
2. allows customization of the step

And test those use cases. Then abstract away the common logic into a `setup`
function. This one might be a little tricky thanks to variable references, but I
know you can do it!

💰 Here's a little tip. Due to variable references, you'll need to change your
test component a bit:

```javascript
const results = {}
function TestComponent(props) {
  Object.assign(results, useCustomHook())
  return null
}

// interact with and assert on results here
```

### 3. 💯 using react-hooks testing library

Your `setup` function is very similar to the `renderHook` function from
[`@testing-library/react-hooks`](https://github.com/testing-library/react-hooks-testing-library)!
Swap your own `setup` function with that.

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then
fill out the elaboration and feedback form:

https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=Testing%20React%20Applications%20%F0%9F%A7%90&e=08%3A%20testing%20custom%20hooks&em=
